---
search:
  boost: 2
---
# <span class="name">Unicode Normalisation</span> <span class="command">RвҶҗX(5581вҢ¶)Y</span> {: .heading}

Converts characters in an array to one of four Unicode Normal Forms.

`Y` must be one of the following:

* A character scalar or vector.
* A nested vector of character scalars/vectors.
* An array of any shape, in which each element is a vector character, a scalar numeric, or `вҺ•NULL`.

All characters in Y must be valid Unicode code points, that is, within the ranges U+0000 to U+D800 and U+E000 to U+10FFFF.

`X` must be a character scalar or vector describing the form of normalisation required, from the following:

|`X`   |Normalisation form
|------|---
|`'D'` |Canonical Decomposition
|`'C'` |Canonical Decomposition followed by Canonical Composition
|`'KD'`|Compatibility Decomposition
|`'KC'`|Compatibility Decomposition followed by Canonical Composition

The result `R` is the same as `Y` except that the character arrays are normalised as required. If `Y` is a character scalar or a vector of character scalars and vectors, then scalars in `Y` are converted to vectors. Vectors can contain a different number of characters after normalisation.

## Normalisation

The Universal Character Set allows multiple ways to represent certain glyphs and glyph sequences. For example, the character `ГҮ` has its own code point (U+00C7, or `вҺ•UCS 199`) but can also be formed from two separate code points вҖ“ that for the character `C` (U+0043, or `вҺ•UCS 67`) followed by the combining cedilla (U+0327, or `вҺ•UCS 807`). These two representations are _canonically equivalent_. Some code points or combinations of code points more loosely represent the same character. For example, the characters `5` and `вҒө` (superscript 5) both represent the same numeric digit but are visually distinct. These two have _compatibility equivalence_.

Unicode normalisation is used to transform all equivalent text to a single representation. The four different normal forms are generated by decomposing, or decomposing then composing, code points to either their canonically equivalent or compatibly equivalent sequences. Example use cases for each form are:

| Form | Use For
|------|---
| `D`  | Searching, linguistic analysis
| `C`  | Display, storage, user input
| `KD` | Text comparison, data indexing, accessibility
| `KC` | Search, login names, spoofing defence

For a full explanation of the different normalisation forms, see [Unicode Standard Annex #15](https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/).

<h2 class="example">Examples</h2>
```apl

      COMBINING_CEDILLAвҶҗвҺ•UCS 807
      'C' (5581вҢ¶) 5 '5вҒө' ('C' COMBINING_CEDILLA)
в”ҢвҶ’в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ   в”ҢвҶ’в”Җв”җ в”ҢвҶ’в”җ в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 5 в”Ӯ5вҒөв”Ӯ в”ӮГҮв”Ӯ в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ   в””в”Җв”Җв”ҳ в””в”Җв”ҳ в”Ӯ
в””вҲҠв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ
      'KC' (5581вҢ¶) 5 '5вҒө' ('C' COMBINING_CEDILLA)
в”ҢвҶ’в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ   в”ҢвҶ’в”Җв”җ в”ҢвҶ’в”җ в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 5 в”Ӯ55в”Ӯ в”ӮГҮв”Ӯ в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ   в””в”Җв”Җв”ҳ в””в”Җв”ҳ в”Ӯ
в””вҲҠв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ
      'C' COMBINING_CEDILLA вүЎ 'D' (5581вҢ¶) 'ГҮ'
1
      'BrandTM'вүЎ'Brandв„ў'
0
      'KD'(5581вҢ¶)'Brandв„ў'
BrandTM
      'BrandTM'вүЎвҚҘ('KD'вҲҳ(5581вҢ¶))'Brandв„ў'
1

```

